 I refer to this as the difference between being in motion and taking  action. The two ideas sound similar, but they’re not the same. When  you’re in motion, you’re planning and strategizing and learning. Those  are all good things, but they don’t produce a result.  Action, on the other hand, is the type of behavior that will deliver an  outcome. If I outline twenty ideas for articles I want to write, that’s  motion. If I actually sit down and write an article, that’s action. If I  search for a better diet plan and read a few books on the topic, that’s  motion. If I actually eat a healthy meal, that’s action.  Sometimes motion is useful, but it will never produce an outcome  by itself. It doesn’t matter how many times you go talk to the personal  trainer, that motion will never get you in shape. Only the action of  working out will get the result you’re looking to achieve.  If motion doesn’t lead to results, why do we do it? Sometimes we do  it because we actually need to plan or learn more. But more often than  not, we do it because motion allows us to feel like we’re making  progress without running the risk of failure. Most of us are experts at  avoiding criticism. It doesn’t feel good to fail or to be judged publicly,  so we tend to avoid situations where that might happen. And that’s the  biggest reason why you slip into motion rather than taking action: you  want to delay failure.  It’s easy to be in motion and convince yourself that you’re still  making progress. You think, “I’ve got conversations going with four  potential clients right now. This is good. We’re moving in the right  direction.” Or, “I brainstormed some ideas for that book I want to  write. This is coming together.”  Motion makes you feel like you’re getting things done. But really,  you’re just preparing to get something done. When preparation  becomes a form of procrastination, you need to change something. You  don’t want to merely be planning. You want to be practicing.  If you want to master a habit, the key is to start with repetition, not  perfection. You don’t need to map out every feature of a new habit. You  just need to practice it. This is the first takeaway of the 3rd Law: you  just need to get your reps in.